So we have talked decently about
inheritance and now we want
to talk about multiple inheritance.
Now to be honest, there is
nothing too much to talk about
for multiple inheritance.
You can have comma separated as many
classes as you want to have in that.
Usually we don't prefer
to have too many classes.
2 are more than enough for us.
But even having two of these
classes as inherited classes it
sometimes can create problems.
I will walk you through
with an example.
But, but the topic that we
want to discuss in this
is pretty interesting.
If you look at this, this is
known as Method Resolution order.
What does this mean?
This is a very fancy one
and yes it looks fancy.
It is fancy.
If you look at the documentation,
this is what it says at the very top
of the documentation.
And don't worry, this is not actually
I'm not showing you Python 2
X version documentation.
It was introduced in Python
2.3 but it is still used
including in the Python 3.
So don't you worry, I'm not
showing you anything outdated.
The most important part is
in the abstract.
The document is intended
for Python programmers who want to
understand the C3 method resolution
order used in Python 2.3.
Although it is not
intended for newbies.
Yes, that's the case, it's
not intended for newbies.
It's quite pedagogical
with many worked out examples.
So don't you worry.
Although this topic doesn't seem like
beginner friendly and especially
when you look at the diagram like
what is all going on with this one?
You will get it absolutely when
we start writing the code.
But let me walk you through
with the examples that what it means
by and what's the whole thing
about what's the whole fuzz?
Let's just say this is our class.
And if I go ahead and say this
is our class A and we define
another class just like this,
this is a different class.
We are calling them A and B to make
sure that we easily understand this.
Now let's just say we have
another class which is.
And also this class, this B is
actually inheriting this one.
All right, let's make it a little bit
more of a complex.
This is the class C that we have
and let's just say C also
inherit from the class A.
And now finally you define
a simple class which is D.
And what this D does, it actually
inherits from the class B and as
well as inherits from the class C.
And all of them have just one
single method to work on with.
Now if you call that method in the D.
Is it going to be called
from C or from B or from A?
I know this is a little bit
confusing and that's the reason
I want to actually go through
with the code first.
Code will actually make
life much, much easier.
In this case we'll go with 08_mro py.
Yes, this topic is known
with the name of MRO.
Although the full name is
really really complex.
But nobody calls it with the full
name of Method Resolution Order.
You will always hear
the MRO Word here.
Let's just define what
we have written there.
So let's just say we have a class A
and class A doesn't do much.
It has oops, shouldn't
write that class A.
And what the class A does, it
has simple a label that is it
to make the life easier.
And I will mark it as A so
that we figure out that.
Okay, this is coming
up from the class A.
I'll call this one as
simply base class.
And what extra we have, we
have class B which also
has the same thing label.
Nothing else, no init nothing.
This time we'll mark it as
B and we're going to call
this one as Masala Blend.
Not only that, we actually go
ahead and say this one is going
to inherit from the class A.
This is exactly what we did.
And the question I'm going
to ask you is going to be
little bit interesting.
So pay a small attention.
This one also gets inherited
from the class A.
All right, we are getting
interesting there.
Label.
And this one is actually class C.
And we are going to call
this one as Herbal Blend.
And here comes the question
after one more class, actually
we have class D which actually goes
ahead and inherits B and C.
Yes, this one is inheriting
from two classes and this
one has same thing label.
And the label goes like this which
says or it doesn't have anything.
Let's just say, let's
make it even more fun.
It doesn't have anything.
Now if I go ahead and say that I am
creating a cup and that cups come
from the class D which doesn't
have anything and if I try with
the printing of the value that
says cup dot and definitely cup
has the label.
We know this very for sure.
But can you discuss what
will be the output of this?
I'll zoom out a little bit so
that you can see all at once.
I'll zoom back again,
don't you worry.
This is very interesting and we
need to understand what is
happening how Is it happening?
A has a label which has a,
base class B which inherits from A.
And notice this, this is also N
by the way, if you're thinking this
is too aggressive to going on.
No, in the large frameworks
and large libraries of Python this
is a very common thing which
happens all the way along.
And the class C also inherits from A.
And this says a, label is
being overwritten and the class
D doesn't have any label.
So this one thing is sure that
the D doesn't have any labels.
So it has to look either in the C
or in the B or since B and C both
are actually taking this and have
this label up in the superclass as
well or the parent class as label.
Which one is going to print?
This is very difficult to determine.
I'll tell you a trick as
well to actually go ahead
and work with this.
First let's run the code.
So not like that, definitely.
I want to open the terminal right
up here and we're going to go
ahead and say Python 3 and MRO.
No, it's 08 MRO.
We get the B which is Masala Blend.
And in case this is still
confusing to you, whichever the
class first, if there is any
common such method which are
being called up, it is being
called from the very first class
that you are inheriting.
If you swipe this up from C
to B, now obviously the method
will be called from the C.
This is a neat trick which everybody
knows in the Python ecosystem,
those who have been working around.
But there is also one more
interesting method that you
can go ahead and print out.
You can actually go ahead
and say something like this.
So if this cup is there, I can
actually go ahead and say cup or
I can use the entire class,
let's just say I can go for the D.
And if you go ahead and look at
closely dot, underscore, underscore
MRO exists here as well.
Yes, this is a dunder that
we can go ahead and use.
And what's interesting about this
dunder is if I run this, notice
it, it says okay, I am a class D
which further goes ahead and inherit
from the class C first.
Then I go ahead and inherit
from the class B.
And then further this class
C that I'm inheriting, this since
is inheriting from the class A.
So this is what is mentioned,
that I inherit from the class A.
And then further this B actually
inherits, B inherits A as well.
So you'll notice that, hey,
further I have objects so
this is not being used much.
The only trick that you need
to remember always is
that how the order
of inheritance matters a lot.
And that is it.
That's your mro.
Usually this is a bit
of an advanced topic.
Usually nobody covers it up and
nobody understand the importance
of it until unless you mess up
with the framework manipulation
like you are changing some
internals of FAST API or maybe
some SQL alchemy.
Then you realize, all right,
this is important part of it.
But again, we are here to get
our foundations really strong
in the Python and that's
why we covered this topic.
That is it for this video.
Let's catch up in the next one.